### Linear independence

> In the previous section, questions about the existence of solutions of a linear system led to the concept of the span of a set of vectors. In particular, the span of a set of vectors $v_1, v_2, ... v_n$ is the set of vectors $b$ for which a solution to the linear system $[ v_1 v_2 ... v_n ]x = b$  exists.

> In this section, we turn to **the uniqueness of solutions** of a linear system, the second of our two fundamental questions. This will lead us to the concept of linear independence.

---

#### Linear dependence

**Definition 2.4.5.**  A set of vectors is called linearly dependent if one of the vectors is a linear combination of the others. Otherwise, the set of vectors is called linearly independent.

---

#### How to recognize linear dependence

**Proposition 2.4.6.**  The columns of a matrix are linearly independent if and only if every column contains a pivot position.

**Proposition 2.4.7.**  A linearly independent set of vectors in $`ℝ^m`$ contains at most $m$ vectors.

---

#### Homogeneous equations

If $A$ is a matrix, we call the equation $Ax = 0$ a homogeneous equation.

**Proposition 2.4.9.**  For a matrix $A = [ v_1 v_2 ... v_n ]$, the following statements are equivalent:
- The columns of $A$ are linearly dependent.
- One of the vectors in the set $v_1, v_2, ... v_n$ is a linear combination of the others.
- The matrix $A$ has a column without a pivot position.
- The homogeneous equation $Ax = 0$ has infinitely many solutions and hence a nonzero solution.
- There are weights $c_1, c_2, ... c_n$, not all of which are zero, such that $c_1v_1 + c_2v_2 + ... + c_nv_n = 0$.

---
